ZARA is a Spanish clothing and accessories retailer based in Arteixo, Galicia. Founded on 24
May 1975 by Amancio Ortega and Rosalía Mera, the brand is renowned for its ability to deliver
new clothes to stores quickly and in small batches. Zara needs just two weeks to develop a new
product and get it to stores, compared to the six-month industry average and launches around
10,000 new designs each year. Zara was described by Louis Vuitton Fashion Director Daniel
Piette as “possibly the most innovative and devastating retailer in the world. The company
produces about 450 million items a year for its 1,770 stores in 86 countries. Zara has made of
the use of Information Systems (IS) to advance in many areas. This has resulted in huge success
for the company. This included the application of Business intelligence (BI) involves
technologies, practices for collection, integration, and applications to analyze and present
business information. The main aim of business intelligence is to promote better business
decision-making. BI describes a group of information on concepts and methods to better
decision-making in business. This is achieved by employing a fact-based support system. The
intelligence systems are data-driven and sometimes used in executive information systems.
Predictive views on business operations can be provided by the use of BI systems. predictive
views on business operations can be provided by the use of BI systems since historical and
current data has been gathered into a data bank performance management benchmarking is
done whereby information on other companies in the same industry is gathered. Since Zara has
a large network and therefore deals with large volumes of data, an enterprise information
system has been employed in the firm. This is generally a type of computing system that
involves an enterprise-class that is, typically offering total quality service handling large
volumes of data, and is able to sustain a big organization. With this system, a technology
platform is provided which enables the enterprise is provided to that information can be shared
in all useful levels of management enterprise systems are important in removing the problem
of fragmentation of information. This happens when there are numerous information systems
in an enterprise. The problem is solved by developing a standard data structure. Zara is a big
organization; the enterprise systems are housed in many different data centers and include a
content management system as the main application. The Zara team comprises technology
professionals. These include content specialists, network and system engineers, flash
developers, database business analysts and administrators, software developers, quality
assurance managers, and computer and applications support technicians. All these specialists

DATABASE SYSTEM AI/DS

National University of Computer
and Emerging Sciences

work in tandem to bring about a competitive advantage to businesses by allowing for quick-
response capability. The Zara is devoted to integrating information technology appropriately

into all areas of its operations and activities. The range of services and resources available to
its clients is attributed to the commitment to integrating IT properly into the organization. The
client services group in the Zara partners with staff and clients to identify and meet each group’s
technological requirements. This group of technical advisors associates with departments to
execute a roadmap for a team’s technological vision and then defines this vision within entity
projects. Much support is required for invariable innovation. The Zara IT group is devoted to
developing the community through technology and operates closely with business associates.
The IT group is devoted to developing the community through technology and operates closely
with business associates. The IT group has the technical support and tools they require to come
up with new ideas and spread the ideas to the wider community worldwide. This ensures that
client needs are realized. A constantly growing state-of-the-art technology infrastructure has
enabled the firm to develop and maintain a fully integrated organization/ enterprise. The
infrastructure has enabled the firm to develop and maintain a fully integrated organization/
enterprise. The infrastructure entails a core of systems and attempts designed to produce the
flexibility and capacity for innovation and growth. Zara thrives in an environment of change,
experimentation, and learning that is spreading over the boundaries for the application of IT in
their business in the enterprises’ easy-to-use modular tools, templates, and platforms that
involve all sides of life at the Zara firms including career development, administration, and
operations are implemented and developed. In Zara other web-based solutions are deployed
with advanced knowledge management thereby making a big shift in the quality and speed of
work in how the enterprises function. In the exploding growth of the software market, a new
world growth for the software market a new world of connectivity is realized in Zara. The
urgency of the business recognizing the importance of corporate portals has enabled the linkage
of information, data, people, and knowledge to provide business solutions. The corporate
portals come from consumer portals like Alta-vista, yahoo! and Lycos. The portals (gateways)
show the importance of letting clients have a wide scope of varied information on the web.
This has given rise to the increase in multitasking, receiving information, and checking from
varied sources and thereby getting involved in projects that cross geographical boundaries with
this technology the needs of the community, employees, and even the extended network that is
more advanced are served. Zara is possibly the most devastating and innovative retailer in the

DATABASE SYSTEM AI/DS

National University of Computer
and Emerging Sciences

world. With more than 1000 shops worldwide, Zara has turned controlled garment factories
into a competitive advantage by making and designing garments. By making the garments
themselves, it can quickly react to varying market trends. Zara has been able to succeed in
building a massive brand, without promotion or advertising but through information systems
and information technology.
